[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts,
radio, news.
>> Seconds away. The question is not if
they'll cut interest rates. The question
is by how much.
>> The answer to your question, John, is a
quarter percentage point cut as
expected, but Fed officials also see two
more cuts this year in October and
December.
>> It's Wednesday, September 17th. The
Federal Open Market Committee has just
wrapped up their most recent meeting in
Washington DC. And after two days of
analyzing and debating and forecasting,
the committee voted to cut interest
rates by 25 basis points.
>> I remain squarely focused on achieving
our dual mandate goals of maximum
employment and stable prices for the
benefit of the American people. While
the unemployment rate remains low, it
has edged up. Job gains have slowed and
>> Yeah. It's the first time the Fed has
cut in over a year. move coming after
months of debate. And on the one hand,
the labor market is slowing, but on the
other hand, we're still trying to figure
out what the impact of the tariffs is on
prices and consumer spending is still
going strong,
>> right? You could make a convincing case
for deeper cuts, but you could also make
a case for even raising benchmark rates
at this point. And we don't tend to get
a lot of these types of Fed meetings
where the outcome is, you know, so
debatable. So, we have to ask, how did
the central bank actually make the
decision to cut? To do that, let's back
up six weeks to the beginning of August
and head north. In fact, we are going
3,000 m north.
[Music]
>> I added to my collection of flies for
fly fishing yesterday.
>> Oh, I I am slightly obsessed with
fishing lures. I don't even fish. I I
don't know why. I just
>> I like to fish.
>> That's Mary Dailyaly, president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.
>> So, here's why I get these flies. I go
to places all over that have fly
fishing, and then I buy a fly that's
specific to their area to remind you.
It's sort of uh geeky, but it reminds me
that everybody fishes, but that you have
to have a local knowledge to fish. Well,
>> yeah. You have to have like the fly
that's in season for that particular
location. And it kind of is why you go
to the places to visit to learn more
about the economy. You sort of have to
you can understand it but you don't know
it until you have the locality. So you
don't do it well.
>> Daily oversees the 12th district of the
Fed. It's the largest of the districts
and includes the nine most western US
states plus the most northern the last
frontier, the great land, the sourdough
state. I am talking about Alaska.
Obviously,
>> in early August, Mary Daly visited
Anchorage, the largest city and biggest
port in Alaska. It was actually her
third visit to the state this year. And
she's on a mission of sorts.
>> An expedition?
>> Sure. She's on a northern expedition to
try to find answers to the questions
that everyone, all Fed officials,
everyone else are trying to constantly
puzzle out right now. What is going on
with the US economy? Where is it headed?
I've heard that everywhere we've gone
that the city's under so much pressure
and it's hard to What is your diagnosis
about how this happened?
>> So, what was she seeing and how did it
actually inform the Fed's decision to
cut rates a month later? On this special
edition of the OddLotss podcast, we are
going to follow along as Daily tours her
district, speaking to local business
leaders like a factory that makes parts
for the oil industry
>> and the airport
>> and the port itself to try to get a
closer look at the giant logistics hub
that is the city of Anchorage.
[Music]
You know, every town in the world, I
think, probably likes to describe its
residents as quote scrappy unquote. But
this really is like the first place I've
been where I think that might actually
be true. People in Alaska really do seem
scrappy.
>> They have to be to get along up here. Uh
we really are on the edge of this vast
wilderness. In fact, one thing we
learned is that people up here love to
compare the size of their state to how
many Texases it would fit in,
>> which to be fair, Texans love to do that
stuff as well.
>> Yeah. Um, the answer is two and a half.
By the way, Alaska is the size of two
and a half Texases. Okay. So, everyone
knows Alaska is big, but until you
visit, it's hard to really appreciate
just how big. The only way to get from
Anchorage, which is the largest city, to
Juno, which is the capital, is a 2hour
plane ride. And if you want to haul
supplies from a place like Fairbanks,
which is in the interior, to the oil
fields on the North Slope, that is a
10-hour drive on what is mostly a dirt
road with one gas station on the way.
>> It's really isolated. Uh there's not
even a railroad that takes you to the
lower 48 or even to Canada. And there
are mountains that basically cut off
huge sections of the state from each
other.
>> But as we learned during our visit,
Alaska is still dealing with all the
same issues that the rest of the US
faces. So things like inflation,
unemployment, tariffs, housing
shortages, logistical snarls.
>> That's why Mary is here. I mean, to try
to get a handle on the broader US
economy by looking at a place that at
least right now is sort of ground zero
for a lot of these trends
>> is to collect information. So we collect
information not only on the wide array
of data that are available and then we
have history and models. We have all of
those things and then we have
conversations.
>> Today Mary is the guest of honor at the
Anchorage Economic Development
Corporation's annual gathering. The
Denina Convention Center downtown is
overflowing with more than 1500 local
business owners, politicians, civic
leaders. They're here to mingle,
network, talk shop, and hear Mary's
thoughts on where she thinks the economy
stands. as well as counting the cranes
as a future-looking variable is so
important. So, I just want to thank
everybody who's ever answered the beige
book, who's ever met with us. If you
like the beige book, we'll send you
another one. It used to be beige, by the
way.
>> So, this is the factf finding portion of
the expedition because yes, Mary is
giving a speech about what she's seeing
in the economy, but she's also learning
from the local businesses who are
listening to her.
>> And what I've been hearing is that the
uncertainty is the word of the day. I
guess it was on the bingo card. And
uncertainty makes it harder for firms
and households to know what they're
doing next, which makes it harder for us
as policy makers, Federal Reserve policy
makers, to know exactly how the economy
will evolve.
>> Mary isn't a voting member of the
committee this year, but as a reserve
bank president, she still participates
in all the FOMC meetings where she
offers her own assessments and opinions
based on what she's seeing in the
economy of the 12th district right now.
And so her views still do help shape the
committee's decision
>> in all the states in my district on a
regular basis as are my teams. And the
reason for that is so that we can
understand firsthand what you are in
particularly thinking about, what you
see as your opportunities, what you see
as your challenges, but also how do you
see the economy today? You know, there's
an interesting statistic we just heard
that people feel decently pretty good
about their own situation, but
pessimistic about the economy. Well, we
we need to understand why. What are you
seeing as you look out? Businesses are
making decisions today about what
they're going to do at the end of the
year. We need to know what those are. We
need to know what how households are
feeling. Are they feeling strapped? Are
they feeling like they have enough
disposable income? And the data alone,
looking at the published data, not you
know, all the micro data, you could look
at a hundred series and you would never
have the complete picture. I'm sure
we've all heard the phrase data
dependent and the Fed leans heavily on
the volumes and volumes of economic
statistics that get released every month
when making its decisions. But sometimes
you can augment that data with things
you observe on the ground.
>> Right? So just a few days before the
Alaska trip, we got a jobs report that
heavily revised down the employment
numbers from the earlier months. It was
a big surprise, huge moment for the
markets, but it didn't really surprise
Mary.
>> And what was interesting about the jobs
report on Friday is it better matched in
the direction of change, not in the
magnitude. It better match what I've
been hearing. And so a disciplining
device for data that you don't know if
they're really accurate, is what you
hear from people because people do not
tell you, I feel really, really
comfortable getting a job only to find
out that the job market report is bad.
What they will tell you is, "Boy, it
looks really worrisome out there." And
then you get a jobs report that doesn't
look like the rapid job growth. That was
the thing that was out of whack. The
rapid job growth from the month before
is what I said, "Well, really, that's
not what I'm hearing. What's the gap?"
And we spent a lot of time digging in
and unpacking that. But then when the
jobs market report got revised, I was
like, "Okay, that makes more sense."
Even
>> But of course, jobs aren't the only
thing the Fed cares about. Its mandate
is low unemployment and stable
inflation. And these things seem to be
operating at cross currents right now.
Inflation has been above the Fed's 2%
target for a while. And the concern is
that with tariffs coming in from the
Trump administration, prices are just
going to go up further.
>> So to understand the risk here, we're
following Mary to the offices of
Northern Solutions. It's an Alaskan
company which makes components and parts
for the oil industry which is obviously
big business in the state.
>> Yeah. All the pipes and casings and
spools and valves and things like that.
>> And as you can imagine, steel is a
pretty key input for a lot of these
products. Since June, there's been a
whopping 50% tariff on steel and
aluminum coming from abroad.
>> So if we compare 21 to today, it's
cheaper.
>> I see. If we compare today to 23 24,
yeah, it's small.
>> And companies like Northern Solutions
are trying to figure out just how to
navigate all these new trade
restrictions. It's not as easy as just
say switching to a US supplier.
>> But if you do that and you can't get the
continuity, well then that's a cost to
you that not being back there. So it's a
it's really helpful for us to think
about when we try to think about the
effects of tariffs or the effects of
changes on any uh administration on your
industry.
>> Absolutely. I mean the the tariffs so
the tariffs balanced it. So I can go to
a US mill. I can go to a foreign mill
and I'm going to pay the same price now
with that tariff. But it's the industry
that mill's geared to and the lead time
of that steel that's the problem. Yeah.
And honestly, we we have a lot of small
steel mills here in this country. A lot
of small ones. They're very very
specific to a certain industry.
>> In other words, all steel isn't equal
>> mills. So, there's mills all around the
world. Steel mills all around the world.
I can't use them all because of that,
because of their MTRS. Not country of
origin, just how well they do it.
>> Okay. So we have a lot of steel that
comes into the US tubing that that comes
brought in as green tube that we heat
treated in the US. So that MTR is
generated from a US uh heat treat
facility and now it's 51% American and
then you go all the stuff on it.
>> I see.
>> So when we we talk about metals that I
can use, they're all over the place, but
I can't use them all.
>> This is actually a really good example
of the kind of information that makes
Mary's visit so important. It's the kind
of thing that you can't really learn
from an economic data release.
>> I'm going to use that. One of the things
that I I just to show you how tell you
how we use things I've learned is that
if you think about how likely are we to
shift all of our production from the
United States or how likely is a global
market on steel to be able to re if we
put it all back today. I mean, you've
taught me two things already that not
everybody is geared to your industry and
you have to have a specific, you know,
heat strategy in order to even use the
materials and they have to be a certain
quality. So, it just means that you
don't have the open marketplace that I
think many people would think you have.
So, they would just look at the number
of manufacturers and they'd say, "Oh,
look, you could do all of this." But you
can't. There's barriers
>> there. There are barriers.
>> Very helpful. You know, there's another
big Alaskan business that's grappling
with tariffs, and that is the port. Next
stop, the Port of Alaska.
[Music]
Not many people have a demand for those
ships anymore. So they'll decommission
them as they
>> Yeah. Although I I'll say in Natson in
particular. So they have three ships
that they rotate between and u they have
>> the port of Alaska used to be called the
port of Anchorage by the way. Very cool.
It's a deep water port. The tides here
are crazy. Here's uh Jim Jagger, the
port's acting director, explaining what
they're having to deal with.
>> So, Port of Alaska has a variety of
issues that we're not unique, except
that we're unique in the combination of
issues we have. So, what are our
challenges? For instance, we have um a
pretty fast current. We have a 30-ft
tide flux. Uh so, between low tide and
high tide,
>> 30 foot. Then our maximum tide flux
between the lowest tide of the season
and the highest tide is 40 ft.
>> I heard it is the second biggest tide
flux in the world.
>> Yeah, it's actually depending on it.
It's it's probably fifth or sixth, but
in places where people actually do
commerce, we're number two.
>> So because of the harsh growing
conditions and the short summer season
in Alaska, almost all of the state's
fresh food has to be imported. And the
vast majority of that food arrives by
boat from west coast peers, mostly
Seattle and Tacoma. And with only four
ships coming in per week, Alaska's
supply lines are stretched very tight.
And Mary has actually experienced the
downside of those stretched supply lines
before. Here she is talking with Jim
about it.
>> Running out of things. We ran out of
this. When I was here in May, the hotel
ran out of coffee because they said the
supplier hadn't gotten it in and they
wouldn't get it until
>> in in May. We had we lost a ship because
of a mechanical. So, if your timing was
correct, you may have your coffee may
have been coming up.
>> Yeah, I went down for coffee and she
said, "We are we don't have any coffee
for
>> that actually demonstrates how skinny
our supply line."
>> Yeah. No, that's that that's why I
wanted to talk about it. Um I'm still
I'm not traumatized by my lack of
coffee, but I just was surprised at how
I was surprised at how fragile or
vulnerable.
>> We we have 6 to 10 days worth of food in
the States. So we import depending on
whose numbers you believe between 94 and
96% of the food consumed in Alaska is is
imported. Figure we're handling 3/4 of
that. Um so you know if that's coming in
we we have four scheduled container
ships a week. Two on Sundays, two on
Tuesdays. Um if we lose a ship, you know
that's 25% of the food for the next
week. Uh and it is very realistic that
if you walk into the Fred Meyer grocery
store and you go, "Huh, why is there no
salad? you know, uh, that's why, and you
know, it's an interesting take. If you
go down to the lower 48 and say go to
Home Depot, Home Depot's lower 48 stores
have a restock where they can restock an
entire store in 32 hours. So, if you're
on the G Coast and they have a
hurricane, they completely sell the
store out. They're set up so that they
can come in 32 hours later, they're
totally restocked. Okay? Now apply that
model to Alaska where we have no
warehousing. 32 hours means if the if we
have an earthquake or something happens
here and they empty out the store, they
place the order. 32 hours to get it to
Tacoma on the dock. There's then a 66
1/2 hour float up to Anchorage and
that's assuming you're on the right
cycle and you don't have to wait a
couple of days till the next ship
leaves. So, it gets up here in 66 and a
half hours and then it's got to make it
from Anchorage to wherever the final
destination is. So, if you're in Midtown
Anchorage, well, you'll be it'll be
there this afternoon. Uh if it's in
Fairbanks, well, that's another day. So,
suddenly your 32-hour restock, you know,
could be six, seven days.
>> Can I ask a dumb question? But why don't
you build some warehousing capacity?
>> That was my question.
>> Well,
>> I don't think it's dumb. I was going to
ask. So our basic problem is that we
have a very small population spread out
over a huge area. You know 3/4 of a
million people in the entire state. So
basically a city, right? And our state
is two and a half times the size of
Texas.
>> But if you really want to see it, go to
Bush, Alaska.
>> That's John Daly, an engineer who is
leading a big modernization effort at
the port.
>> So go to these remote communities and
then you'll really see the effect of
what what you're talking about. But it's
uh it's pronounced if they if they get
some of these communities only get three
or four barges a year basically. Milk is
hugely expensive. Anything fresh is very
expensive. If you go to you know I've
worked living here I've worked in a lot
of remote places. We're talking Kodiak
or St. Paul Island or Bethl or
something. Then you really see the the
end of the supply chain and it's super
sensitive in those locations. So, it's
very it can be vulnerable here, but it's
sort of fragile over there.
>> More vulnerable. And we're kind of a
hub. It's a hub and spoke system. So,
we're a hub that helps supply those
areas. And if we're sensitive, they are
10 times.
>> Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
>> And now, just to make things even more
complicated, the port also has tariffs
to contend with. As the primary import
hub from the entire state, you can
imagine that the port thinks about this
issue quite a bit. Not only could
tariffs impact trade, all those ships
going in and out of the harbor, stopping
to refuel, so forth, but they could get
the first look at how companies choose
to respond to any increase in costs.
>> It also just as likely to push up the
price of goods. Oh, yeah.
>> So, they're going to face tariffs on
goods, but they're also going to face
port fees on goods. And so, then it's
just be more expensive.
>> It gets worse, though, because we have
we have the the death spiral. So, we
raise our tariffs and then right now
most of the cargo coming in are deep
water vessels. But if we raise our
tariffs per ton enough, uh, at some
point some folks who are shipping things
that are not timesensitive, new cars,
you know, we'll go, you know, for the
tariff, I'm just going to bring it up on
a on a barge into Whittier
>> and I'll save the tariff.
>> And then what happens is that then
reduces our overall tonnage. We still
have to make our debt payment. So, we
now have to increase our tariffs more.
So, we're getting into this spiral. Food
prices just went up even more. And oh,
by the way, you know, maybe you're not
paying the tariff on your truck, but you
are going to get it 10 days later than
you thought you were. You know, so
you're getting worse cargo service also.
So, the impact on Alaskans is they're
paying more for certain things like
food, uh, and everything else is the
cargo service is less good. Well, the
the normal way that all this any kind of
extra tax ships out is you either wait
longer or you pay more.
>> Yeah,
>> that's that's just how it works. I mean,
in any of the things that's why I tried
to put a optimistic uh
>> end point on the speech is because you
can I think ultimately it's you guys are
very enthusiastic about what you're
trying to do, but there's the other side
of it which can easily demoralize
people, right? It just seems like an
insurmountable problem when you think of
the cost structure here. But we have no
option.
>> No. Exactly. So you can either back
yourself into a corner with no option or
you can just say well
>> and be sad, right? Or you can just go
forward with purpose, right? So yeah,
>> it's sort of common knowledge that it's
expensive to live in Alaska. It just
costs more to get goods and services up
here. And residents understand that's
part of the deal. But there are limits
to just how much of a premium Alaskans
are willing to pay to live here and just
how much businesses can get away with
when it comes to pricing. Cheryl
Beckham, director of finance at the Port
of Alaska, talks about this point with
Mary. I mean,
>> I'm revealing my economist background,
but it just makes sense that the price
would be higher here because you have
all these additional costs, but you're
saying the small communities think it
should be like it is in the lower 48.
So, you have to split this difference.
>> So, there's a similar So, they
understand that there's a transportation
cost, but what is that market that
they're willing to accept, right? So as
costs go up and fuel goes up and the you
know the fuel bars the tankers that
bring it
>> they cost more for
>> So you're probably always having a
little less margin up here.
>> Right. Yes.
>> Right. So you do this is the really big
question. How much of the extra cost
coming from the tariffs is going to be
absorbed by the companies themselves
whether it's importers or the
transportation businesses or middlemen
like the port. and how much of the cost
is going to be passed on to consumers
which would basically risk fanning
inflation again.
>> And that is a big deal for a state which
already has a very high cost of living
precisely because all this stuff needs
to be imported and often sent on to
really remote locations within the
state. And even if you're not
necessarily importing foreign goods,
tariffs can still push up the price of
what's made domestically. question that
we're grappling with making monetary
policy is there's taxes, immigration,
deregulation, tariffs and those things
have different likely effects etc. So
one of the questions I've been asking
people when we meet is do any of those
things can you see any of those effects
immediately affecting your business here
and do you have any sense of if they
will? up immediately. Uh
>> well, the tariff thing has come up in
our construction. So, we have a lot of
big construction coming up like a couple
billion dollars worth of infrastructure.
>> Sorry. Is that port specific?
>> Yeah, that's our dock replacement.
>> Okay. Right.
>> And and most of that is by America
uh because we're trying to get federal
funding and that comes with the
territory.
>> So, the tariffs are not directly
affecting that because theoretically
that's on foreign goods. However, it
floats the whole
>> pushes the whole district
>> the whole harbor up. So the price of
steel, buy America steel, buy America
this, buy America that all goes up. So
it has a a large effect on on that.
>> How how much have you seen prices rise
maybe from when you originally planning
it?
>> I mean something rough.
>> No, I want to admit that number, but
it's a large number. Um,
>> right. We started off 10 years ago with
uh something that was $400 million and
we're at two and a half billion now.
>> Right. The Port of Alaska is in the
middle of a $2.5 billion modernization
program. So it's a pretty bad time for
the cost of materials to be going up and
there's also the financing costs right
if interest rates go up because
inflation is rising that also adds to
the cost possibly exponentially. So can
I ask a question about from all three of
you is like if you think about the work
you do here and the things that are
facing Alaska with all the you know just
the economy the changes in policy
interest rates etc. What what's worrying
you right now?
>> What worries me is financing our our
project our $2.5 billion dollar project
trying and we have some state and
federal funds. The rest of it is slated
for uh local revenue bonds.
>> Okay.
>> And that's
>> Do you think those will pass?
>> They've given us authority to issue
those. But the question is how how much
can you push into the market um
>> once
>> and it puts our debt load from whatever
it is 50 million we have now up to
>> billions. 1.1 we have authority for 1.1
billion.
>> It greatly increases our debt load. So
that's the biggest. So our our goal is
one third one third one third one third
federal money one/3 state money 1/3
local money for our ne our next doc it's
going to be roughly $900 million right
at this point we have 90% is going to be
local 5% state 5% federal. If we go
forward to finance the 90% that's the
local share uh after 40 years 2.2
uh 2.28
uh billion dollars is what we're going
to pay back for 900 billion. So you know
with that the cost of financing is going
to be huge and what is that going to do
to overall cargo rates? Remember, one of
our things is we're trying to maintain a
cost-effective cargo system. Uh, and
boy, when do we get crushed?
>> Speaking of effective cargo systems, a
huge chunk of Alaska's imports go
through the port, as we've been
discussing. But it is not the only
logistics hub in town.
>> Right. To get a complete picture, we've
got to check out the airport, which is
exactly where Mary is heading next.
>> How much would a plane like that cost?
>> 3 million.
>> Yeah,
>> that's you lightly used.
>> 3.8.
>> We have We have a We have a handful of
those. Yeah.
>> What are the planes that go out
completely?
>> Um, I'm Susan Alt. from the Alaska
International Airport's system
controller and we're all glad to have
you here today to show off our system.
Uh so I'll go ahead and get going. So
what is the Alaska International Airport
System, also known as AAS? It is made up
of Ted Stevens Anchorage International
Airport, which is the largest passenger
airport in the state of Alaska. It's
also the fourth busiest cargo airport in
the world and the second busiest in the
United States. Anchorage's impact is the
largest airport in Alaska. Passenger
activity for fiscal year 25 ended at 4,
excuse me, 5.4 million passengers
served. Air cargo for 2025. We had 3.7
million tons um for 2025. And again, as
I said, we're number two in the USA and
number four in the world with regards to
cargo. Um, we support one in seven jobs
in the Anchorage area and provide 1.8
billion in annual economic impact to the
state. And you can see on the screen
about the direct jobs and wages impact
versus the indirect and induced uh jobs
and wages. So, we're pretty significant
economic boom for the state of Alaska.
>> Air transport is huge for Alaska and the
Anchorage airport basically acts like a
truck stop for the whole state and
really global trade. Fully loaded cargo
planes moving stuff from Asia, the
Middle East, parts of Europe will stop
here to refuel on their way to the rest
of North America. And for Alaskans, it's
the main depot for most of the goods
they order from elsewhere, which are
sorted in the huge FedEx and UPS hangers
before being distributed throughout the
state. It's also a commuter hub. Many of
the oil workers on the North Slope work
in two week on, two week off shifts.
They catch a small plane up to the
fields where they live in company
housing while on the job and then they
return to their families and hometown
for the rest of the month.
>> Effectively use that as a suburb.
Suburban. How many
people?
>> Yeah. So this is the conical Phillips if
you come from
>> airplane that's going up to north slope.
So if you're a slip worker and you work
2 weeks on two weeks off really
>> you can live in Kenai have a nice Alaska
lifestyle over there hop on a grand
aviation
>> plane up in 35 minutes you're at the
door you walk over the next terminal and
get on your north
>> slope like the rest of the country
housing is a major issue even in a state
with say it with me Joe twice the land
of Texas
>> yeah as we've seen over and over Alaska
faces all the issues that the rest of
the US does only at least right now more
acutely there's a variety of other
things going on and if you're already
your infrastructure is already a little
vulnerable then you you can imagine any
shock we get in the United States just
in that I mean sorry to the United
States you get it amplified
>> yeah no that that's absolutely true and
>> so leading indicator which helps me make
good decisions when I talk to all of you
[Music]
>> Mary is going straight from the airport
to the airport I guess she's flying to
the lower 48 and there's obviously a lot
of possible takeaways from the trip.
>> You this cost structure of Alaska was
something I think we learned the most
about today. Just why are the prices so
much higher and where would you ever try
to mitigate that? And of course the
things that are going on like inflation
or just changes in how goods are shipped
or supply chain challenges, they're just
magnified in Alaska. And I think we also
learned, you know, I learned that they
happen here first. It's it really is
sort of this canary in the coal mine
almost that when you see it here, you
know it's coming elsewhere. It's going
to be lower in all likelihood because
there's other ways to ensure yourselves,
but you're going to see it. We don't
know exactly what was discussed at the
Fed's September meeting, or at least we
don't know until the transcript is
published in like 2030, but I think you
can get a good sense of what a trip like
this actually adds to the conversation
when Fed governors are all sitting
around the table trying to figure out
what to do next. So, one of the things
that is challenging right now, it was
challenging back in the days when we
were trying to fight high inflation and
it's definitely challenging today when
you're trying to figure out the real
impact of tariffs not not only on growth
but on the on inflation as just one
example unpacking what's happening in
Alaska and knowing at whatever point how
long this is going to take because of
the you know the nonf fungeability of
steel the interoperability of some of
the supply chain networks all of those
things give me insights that I can then
take back to the meeting and then it's
not just us exchanging forecast. I think
they're going to be like this long. I
think they're going to take this long.
It provides evidence, underlying
evidence that you can't find in your
statistics because the statistics we the
statistics we just don't know. All we're
doing is projecting. But now we have our
projections filled out by data and
information. And that makes a huge
difference when you're trying to make
good policy.
[Music]
That's it for our special Alaska
episode. We hope you enjoyed tagging
along with us and Mary on the Anchorage
Expedition.
>> Joe, what stuck out to you?
>> So many things stuck out to me from that
trip. You know, like being in Alaska, it
really did feel like the end of the
world, didn't it? like that that the
edge of the empire here.
>> Yeah, it definitely felt frontier- like
for sure.
>> I've been in rural areas before, even
more rural obviously than uh an urban
area like Anchorage, but I've never just
felt distant like I did in Alaska. And
so, it's very easy to understand why
it's a state permanently in a state of
sort of supply chain stress. Yeah,
that's what really stood out to me as
well because when you go to a place like
Anchorage, I mean there are a lot of the
same restaurants and chain stores that
you would see in any other place in
America, the difference is all that
stuff has to be transported thousands
and thousands of miles to get there.
>> Yeah. No, it's a constant strain. Uh
just extraordinary. You know, I knew
these things about how far-flung
everything was, but then say going to
the airport and seeing how small planes
served the just sort of worker commuter
system was really eye opening. Or just
the sheer number of people who own
planes themselves, you know, like they
have uh these uh uh pontoon planes in
the water that in another state would be
how people would have their boats in the
marina except Alaska. It's planned. Like
it's just it's permanently it's
permanently stretched. Do you uh think
we could go to Hawaii next? That's in
the 12th district, right?
>> Uh let's do it. I'm down.
>> Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracee Alaway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Thank you to Mary
Dailyaly and everyone at the San
Francisco Fed, including Jen
Chamberlain, for letting us come along
on their factf finding journey. Thank
you also to the Port of Alaska, the
Alaska International Airport System, and
Northern Solutions for the tour of their
facilities. Thank you to Ashley ENET of
the Anchorage Economic Development
Corporation. And a final thank you to
all the Alaskans who took the time to
talk to us about their state. Everyone
was so friendly.
>> And don't forget Scrappy.
>> You can follow our producers, Carmen
Rodriguez, Carmen Arman, Dash Bennett at
Dashbot, and Kalebrooks at Kalebrooks.
For more OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes. And you can chat about
all these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we go to far-flung places, then
please leave us a positive review on
your favorite podcast platform. And
remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely adree. All you need
to do is find the Bloomberg channel on
Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[Music]